---
layout: post
title: Expectations vs Reality - Digital Forensic Science Master's Degree Part 9
author: 'ogmini'
tags:
 - coursework 
---

Continuation from [Part 8](https://ogmini.github.io/2025/06/09/DFS-560.html) looking back at my coursework in the Master's Degree in Digital Forensic Science. In this post, I'll be talking about DFS-570 Legal Principles of Digital Investigation.

## DFS-570 Legal Principles of Digital Investigation

This was one of the classes I was looking forward to as it focused on areas that I had very little knowledge on and wanted to learn. I might have been in the minority as most of the class either wanted more technical coursework or already had lots of previous law enforcement experience. We did have some very good discussions on a wide array of topics. It was nice to get viewpoints from both experienced professionals and those just starting in the field. 

Topics of discussion included:

- Plain View Doctrine
- Computer Fraud and Abuse Act
- Border Search Exception
- Wiretap Act / Stored Communications Act
- Compelled Decryption
- Cell Site Location Information
- DF Expert Testimony
- Admissibility of Evidence
- Discovery Process

All of the dicussions revolved around the topics and their relevant case studies. One of the assignments that stood out to me was having to write a memo to a prosecutor after reviewing an affidavit. I had to analyze the admissibility of evidence by answering the following questions:

1. Was it legally obtained?
2. Is the evidence relevant under Federal Rule of Evidence (FRE) 401?
3. What witness(es) are going to admit the evidence?
4. How will each piece of digital evidence be authenticated under FRE 901 and/or FRE 902?
5. Are the above still inadmissible due to hearsay under FRE 801? Exceptions under FRE 803?

I felt that this class was really just scratching the surface and providing awareness of various issues/topics. Digging in deeper for a stronger understanding would be far outside the scope of one class. One take away was to seek legal counsel for any questions. In the end, I still enjoyed this class as it was totally outside of my previous knowledge. 