---
layout: post
title: CISA IR Training - Incident Response Triage - Mitigation (IR218)
author: 'ogmini'
tags:
 - Training
---

Just finished "Incident Response Triage - Mitigation (IR218)" offered by CISA. I talked about these in a previous [post](https://ogmini.github.io/2025/01/04/Certification-Training-Plans-2025.html) and would encourage those eligible to register.

In the course we were given overviews about:

- Investigating Persistence using various tools
  - Autoruns
  - Powershell
- Mitigation Strategies
- Recovery Strategies
- Discussion about Volt Typhoon

I was only registered as an observer this time for the purposes of the hands-on lab portions. I didn't get to press the buttons; but was guided through the exercises by one of the instructors.

## Thoughts

I thoroughly enjoyed the course even though I was just an observer this time. The course was a good refresher on the various techniques to gain and maintain persistence on a Windows system. Everything from the various registry keys to startup folders. We talked about a few tools such as Autoruns, Trawler, and Velociraptor. The lab/exercise was centered on using Autoruns during an incident response and analyzing what it found. The next lab focused on using Powershell to perform a similar investigation.

The last section used Volt Typoon to discuss the various goals for mitigation and tips related to them. In short, you want to:

- Detect Staging for Exfiltration
- Detect Exfiltration
- Find Evidence of Covering Tracks
- Mitigate and Recover

The instructors utilized kahoot.it as a really fun way to review the material after every section. Was a much better way than listening to a voice giving a summary. The audience definitely seemed to enjoy it and it brought out the competitive side for everyone. I hope they continue using it.
